docs(blog): add beta release notes (#858)
pluralsight/tva: website/blog/2022-011-30-dev-beta/index.md

---
slug: v0.3.1-beta-release
title: Announcing Beta Release
authors: [casey]
tags:
  [
    pluralsight,
    development,
    v0.3.1-beta-release,
    headless-styles,
    ui-library,
    design-tokens,
    react-utils,
  ]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

<!-- [Docusaurus blogging features](https://docusaurus.io/docs/blog) are powered by the [blog plugin](https://docusaurus.io/docs/api/plugins/@docusaurus/plugin-content-blog). -->

> Today, marks a big milestone for the developer suite as we happily introduce the Beta version! :tada:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today marks a big milestone for the developer suite as we happily introduce the Beta version! :tada:
```

<!--truncate-->

## Beta Cometh

> As of today we are [feature complete](https://github.com/pluralsight/tva/projects/2) for all of our packages! This means that from this point forward, we are focusing on delivering a stable "rc" release. In order to do this we need _YOU_ the early adopter to test out migration and help us reveal the areas we can improve our packages. :zap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of today we are [feature complete](https://github.com/pluralsight/tva/projects/2) for all of our packages! This means that from this point forward, we are focusing on delivering a stable "rc" release. In order to do this we need _YOU_, the early adopter, to test out migration and help us reveal the areas we can improve our packages. :zap:
```

## Design Tokens

Thanks to [Dan Davidson](https://github.com/dan-davidson-ps), we have an improvement for the Normalize.css file to support setting the `background-color` to help ease migration from Classic.

:::tip

Interested in learning more about Migration? Check out the [NEW Migration docs](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/getting-started/migration).

:::

## Mobile support

Thanks to [Cassidy Swallow](https://github.com/cantocass), we have full Android/Kotlin support for our Design Tokens! This is the first time in Pluralsight history that a design system has supported both mobile and web teams and it only gets better from here!

:::note

We also support iOS/Swift teams, but need some help verifying if there needs to be more work done. If you are a iOS developer, please [check out this issue](https://github.com/pluralsight/tva/issues/724).

:::

## Headless Styles

> A massive update in this package delivers all the style helpers for the components available to designers in the new Web UI Kit. From everything to [Grid helpers](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/headless-styles/Grid) to [Tabs](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/headless-styles/Tabs), Headless styles is now Web Kit complete!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A massive update in this package delivers all the style helpers for the components available to designers in the new Web UI Kit. Everything from [Grid helpers](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/headless-styles/Grid) to [Tabs](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/headless-styles/Tabs), Headless styles is now Web Kit complete!
```

:::note

Classic is **not** a 1:1 comparison to our current system. When Classic was created, Pluralsight was a single product brand. Now that we are multi-product, the new UI Kit acts as the "core" library allowing teams across all products to own their own custom solutions where needed.

:::

### New Style Objects

> Most people don't understand why we don't offer a Component library for our new system? The answer is quite simple, in a world full of Component libraries, we don't need another one. Let's face it, the reality is the for the people who use them, there are plenty of loyalist out there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most people wonder why we don't offer a Component library for our new system. The answer is quite simple: in a world full of Component libraries, we don't need another one. Let's face it, the reality is that for the people who use them, there are plenty of loyalist out there.
```

> This is where Headless Styles shines. Instead of forcing another component library, we have built a system that allows people to _easily extend the library's the already love._ :tada:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where Headless Styles shines. Instead of forcing another component library, we have built a system that allows people to _easily extend the library's they already love._ :tada:
```

> In Beta, we introduce a new export path that allows users to extend their library of choice even easier! This means that your team can keep using the tech stack you already love and utilize the power of Headless Styles to customize the themes through convenience!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Beta, we introduce a new export path that allows you to extend your library of choice even more easily! This means that your team can keep using the tech stack you already love and utilize the power of Headless Styles to customize the themes at your convenience!
```

Special thanks to [Josh Degraw](https://github.com/josh-degraw) for testing out Headless Styles migration with v5 of MUI and helping us improve our library. :heart:

:::note

Interested in learning more about customizing 3rd party component libraries with Headless Styles? Check out the [NEW Customization Docs](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/headless-styles/customization/components).

:::

## React Utils

> Beta introduces a ton of new hooks for people who are React users. From everything to [Preloading Images](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/react-utils/use-preloaded-img) to [Autoformatting Dates](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/react-utils/use-auto-format-date) we have it covered!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beta introduces a ton of new hooks for people who are React users. Everything from [Preloading Images](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/react-utils/use-preloaded-img) to [Autoformatting Dates](https://design.pluralsight.com/docs/development/react-utils/use-auto-format-date), we have it covered!
```
